.TH KEEPALIVED "8" "April 2016"

.na
.nh

.SH "NAME"
keepalived \- load\-balancing and high\-availability service

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBkeepalived\fP
[\fB\-f\fP|\fB\-\-use\-file\fP=FILE]
[\fB\-P\fP|\fB\-\-vrrp\fP]
[\fB\-C\fP|\fB\-\-check\fP]
[\fB\-l\fP|\fB\-\-log\-console\fP]
[\fB\-D\fP|\fB\-\-log\-detail\fP]
[\fB\-S\fP|\fB\-\-log\-facility\fP={0-7}]
[\fB\-V\fP|\fB\-\-dont\-release\-vrrp\fP]
[\fB\-I\fP|\fB\-\-dont\-release\-ipvs\fP]
[\fB\-R\fP|\fB\-\-dont\-respawn\fP]
[\fB\-n\fP|\fB\-\-dont\-fork\fP]
[\fB\-d\fP|\fB\-\-dump\-conf\fP]
[\fB\-p\fP|\fB\-\-pid\fP=FILE]
[\fB\-r\fP|\fB\-\-vrrp_pid\fP=FILE]
[\fB\-c\fP|\fB\-\-checkers_pid\fP=FILE]
[\fB\-x\fP|\fB\-\-snmp\fP]
[\fB\-A\fP|\fB\-\-snmp-agent-socket\fP=FILE]
[\fB\-m\fP|\fB\-\-core\-dump\fP]
[\fB\-M\fP|\fB\-\-core\-dump\-format\fP[=PATTERN]]
[\fB\-v\fP|\fB\-\-version\fP]
[\fB\-h\fP|\fB\-\-help\fP]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Keepalived provides simple and robust facilities for load\-balancing
and high\-availability. The load\-balancing framework relies on the
well\-known and widely used Linux Virtual Server (IPVS) kernel module
providing Layer4 load\-balancing. Keepalived implements a set of
checkers to dynamically and adaptively maintain and manage a
load\-balanced server pool according to their health. Keepalived also
implements the VRRPv2 and VRRPv3 protocols to achieve high\-availability
with director failover.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB -f, --use-file\fP=FILE
Use the specified configuration file. The default configuration file
is "/etc/keepalived/keepalived.conf".
.TP
\fB -P, --vrrp\fP
Only run the VRRP subsystem. This is useful for configurations that do
not use the IPVS load balancer.
.TP
\fB -C, --check\fP
Only run the healthcheck subsystem. This is useful for configurations
that use the IPVS load balancer with a single director with no failover.
.TP
\fB -l, --log-console\fP
Log messages to the local console. The default behavior is to log
messages to syslog.
.TP
\fB -D, --log-detail\fP
Detailed log messages.
.TP
\fB -S, --log-facility\fP=[0-7]
Set syslog facility to LOG_LOCAL[0-7]. The default syslog facility is LOG_DAEMON.
.TP
\fB -X, --release-vips\fP
Drop VIP on transition from signal.
.TP
\fB -V, --dont-release-vrrp\fP
Don't remove VRRP VIPs and VROUTEs on daemon stop. The default
behavior is to remove all VIPs and VROUTEs when keepalived exits.
.TP
\fB -I, --dont-release-ipvs\fP
Don't remove IPVS topology on daemon stop. The default behavior it to
remove all entries from the IPVS virtual server table when
keepalived exits.
.TP
\fB -R, --dont-respawn\fP
Don't respawn child processes. The default behavior is to restart the
VRRP and checker processes if either process exits.
.TP
\fB -n, --dont-fork\fP
Don't fork the daemon process. This option will cause keepalived to
run in the foreground.
.TP
\fB -d, --dump-conf\fP
Dump the configuration data.
.TP
\fB -p, --pid\fP=FILE
Use the specified pidfile for the parent keepalived process. The default
pidfile for keepalived is "/var/run/keepalived.pid", unless a network
namespace is being used. See
.B NAMESPACES
below for more details.
.TP
\fB -r, --vrrp_pid\fP=FILE
Use the specified pidfile for the VRRP child process. The default pidfile
for the VRRP child process is "/var/run/keepalived_vrrp.pid", unless a
network namespace is being used.
.TP
\fB -c, --checkers_pid\fP=FILE
Use the specified pidfile for checkers child process. The default pidfile
for the checker child process is "/var/run/keepalived_checkers.pid" unless
a network namespace is being used.
.TP
\fB -x, --snmp\fP
Enable the SNMP subsystem.
.TP
\fB -A, --snmp-agent-socket\fP=FILE
Use the specified socket for connection to SNMP master agent.
.TP
\fB -m, --core-dump\fP
Override the RLIMIT_CORE hard and soft limits to enable keepalived to
produce a coredump in the event of a segfault or other failure.
This is most useful if keepalived has been built with 'make debug'.
Core dumps will be created in /, unless keepalived is run with the 
--dont-fork option, in which case they will be created in the directory
from which keepalived was run, or they will be created in the directory
of a configuraton file if the fault occurs while reading the file.
.TP
\fB -M, --core-dump-pattern\fP[=PATTERN]
Sets option --core-dump, and also updates /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern
to the pattern specified, or 'core' if none specified.
Provided the parent process doesn't terminate abnormally, it will restore
/proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern to its original value on exit.

\fBNote:\fP This will also affect any other process producing a core dump while keepalived is running.
.TP
\fB -v, --version\fP
Display the version and exit.
.TP
\fB -h, --help\fP
Display this help message and exit.

.SH NAMESPACES
.B keepalived
can be run in a network namespace (see
\fBkeepalived.conf\fP(5) for configuration details). When
run in a network namespace, a local mount namespace is also
created, and /var/run/keepalived/keepalived_NamespaceName
is mounted on /var/run/keepalived. By default, pid files with
the usual default names are then created in
/var/run/keepalived from the perspective of a process in the
mount namespace, and they will be visible in
/var/run/keepalived/keepalived_NamespaceName for a process
running in the default mount namespace.

.SH SIGNALS
.B keepalived
reacts to a set of signals.  You can send a signal to
the parent
.B keepalived
process using the following:
.IP
.nf
kill -SIGNAL $(cat /var/run/keepalived.pid)
.fi
.PP
Note that -SIGNAL must be replaced with the actual signal
you are trying to send, e.g. with HUP. So it then becomes:
.IP
.nf
kill -HUP $(cat /var/run/keepalived.pid)
.fi
.PP
.TP
.B HUP
This causes
.B keepalived
to close down all interfaces, reload its configuration, and
start up with the new configuration.
.TP
.B TERM, INT
.B keepalived
will shut down.
.TP
.B USR1
Write configuration data to
.B /tmp/keepalived.data
.TP
.B USR2
Write statistics info to
.B /tmp/keepalived.stats
.LP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBkeepalived.conf\fP(5), \fBipvsadm\fP(8)

.SH "AUTHOR"
This man page was written by Ryan O'Hara <rohara@redhat.com>
